# NfcDecoder

### What is it?

NfcDecoder is a python-based parser of 14443A traffic generated by HydraBus/HydraNFC hardware running under [HydraFW](https://github.com/hydrabus/hydrafw) version 0.9 or later. Sniffs must be in **Text** format, with original whitespace and column style to be retained as saved by the FW (i.e. One Tab between columns). NfcDecoder will produce a CSV file easy to be reformatted later one. Interpretaion scripts are YAML files ('json-ised' in case JSON conversion will be required in the future). YAML is choosen to enable hex numbers and also comments to make it more readable.

### Usage

`python nfcdecoder.py my_sniff.txt`
This will produce `my_sniff.csv` in the same directory as the source sniff.

### Supported Protocols/Targets

* 14443A Target cascaded selection and anticollision with UID retrieval
* 14443A RATS/ATS and 14443-4 Protocol activation (not in full, see TODO list)
* 7816-4 APDU parsing (not in full, see TODO list)
* 14443A Mifare Classic Auth (further traffic encrypted, so no parsing)
* 14443A Mifare Ultralight (not in full, see TODO list)


### Requirements

* Python 3.6.8 or later. (Written and tested on 3.6.8 but may work on earlier 3.6 versions. Will NOT run on 3.5 or any 2.x versions)
* Good quality sniffs starting from REQA/WUPA. NfcDecoder relies heavily on its internal state machine. It might misinterpret certain data if previous states were skipped for whatever reason.
* CSV editor/viewer. LibreOffice is a better choice than Excel as it will offer initial formatting choices.


### TODO List. Please contribute! (Most important tasks at the top, but any help is very welcome)

* [ ] Binary format support in addition to TXT (Work in progress)
* [ ] Help section on how to create your own YAML scripts
* [ ] EMV TLV parsing. There are a number of free TLV parsers (e.g. [BP Tools](https://www.eftlab.com/bp-tools/), [TVR Decoder](https://tvr-decoder.appspot.com/t/home) ) but it will be nice to have something inside NfcDecoder as well, similar to [EMV Framework](https://github.com/apuigsech/emv-framework), but up-to-date and Kernel specific
* [ ] 14443B Protocol support
* [ ] Mifare Desfire and Mifare Plus support
* [ ] NFC Forum Tags

